Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.

Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow
Nameless here for evermore.
Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door;—
Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,

But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,
Merely this and nothing more.
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;—
Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door—

"Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou," I said, "art sure no craven,
Quoth the Raven "Nevermore."
Though its answer little meaning—little relevancy bore;
Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only
Till I scarcely more than muttered "Other friends have flown before—

Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
Of 'Never—nevermore'."
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore
This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o'er,

"Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath sent thee
Quoth the Raven "Nevermore."
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
Is there—is there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore!"
"Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!
It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore—

Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
Quoth the Raven "Nevermore."
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
